We'll begin our discussion of
the Java completable futures
framework by first covering
reactive programming.
In this part of the
lesson, I'll describe
the key principles that underlie
the reactive programming model.
Reactive programming is an
asynchronous programming
paradigm that's
concerned with processing
data streams and
propagating changes.
There are four key
principles that
are part of the reactive
programming model.
The first is responsive.
And the idea here is
we want our solutions
to provide rapid and
consistent response times.
Ideally we should be able to
establish reliable upper bounds
on the time required to deliver
consistent quality of service
in order to prevent delays,
especially delays that
could be noticeable by users.
We also want the
system to be resilient.
That means it needs
to be responsive
even in the face of failure,
especially partial failure.
Failure of some
operations should not
bring the entire system down.
Third, we want the
system to be elastic.
It should remain responsive
even under varying workloads.
Another way of saying
this is we want
to be able to
auto-scale performance.
So as the workload
goes up, we want
to be able to take advantage
of more processing resources
in order to be able
to keep the workload
consistent and responsive.
And finally, we'd like the
solution to be message driven.
What that really
means is we want
to be able to support
asynchronous message passing
to ensure loose coupling,
isolation, and location
transparency between
the different components
of our solution.
If you think about the other
three principles-- responsive,
resilient, and elastic--
those are more about quality
of service properties,
whereas message driven, that
principle is really more
of an implementation detail.
And we'll talk
about this when we
talk more about how Java
completable futures map
onto these principles.